---
title: "Build On Live | Tel Aviv Show Notes"
description: "Build On Live | Tel Aviv happened on May 31 live from the AWS Tel Aviv Summit. You can catch up on recordings on Build On AWS YouTube or the AWS Twitch Channel!"
tags:
  - aws
  - build-on-live
  - twitch
  - aws-summit
authorGithubAlias: darko-mesaros
authorName: Darko Mesaros
date: 2023-06-13
spaces:
  - livestreams
---

Build On Live | Tel Aviv happened on May 31 live from the AWS Tel Aviv Summit. You can catch up on recordings on Build On AWS YouTube or the AWS Twitch Channel!

Topics included: Getting from 0 to $500MM as a CTO & Co-Founder, Mastering AWS Cost Optimization, Amazon Bedrock, and more!


## Kick Off

Hosts: Matheus & Maish




## GameDay Introduction

Hosts: Linda & Guillermo


## Getting from 0 to $500MM as a CTO and Co-Founder

Guest: Ran Ribenzaft, AWS Hero, CTO & Co-Founder of Espagon

As a CTO, Ran has learned that entrepreneurship is not just about having a great idea, and not only choosing a tech stack - it’s much more. CTO can wear many different “hats”, he’s had at least 8 of them. Among many of them, AWS helped him to drive success and quicker wins. In this session, he shares his journey to help others become better CTOs.

🎙️Follow his podcast “[Hameysdaim](https://twitter.com/hameyasdim)“
📲 Follow Ran on LinkedIn & Twitter


## Startup Spotlight: Noname Security

Guest: Dor Dankner

## Startup Spotlight: Onebeat - **How to generate more money with a holistic supply chain solution** 

Guest: Viki Slavin, COO, Onebeat

Onebeat is a service that helps retailers to streamline their operations, optimize their inventory, and ultimately drive greater profit margins. In an industry that's rapidly digitizing, the effective management of inventory data is not just a luxury, it's a necessity. However, maintaining an expensive IT infrastructure can be a daunting challenge for many businesses. That's where Onebeat comes in!

💻 Follow Viki on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/viki-slavin/)! 

## ****Creating an Intelligent Software Development World Where any Developer can Develop Fast with Zero Bugs****

Guest: Dedy Kredo

With the ever-growing demand for software solutions and the need to improve development velocity, developers face immense challenges developing faster and with higher quality.
On top of that, due to the rise of AI-empowered assistants, developers are creating even more code, faster. The code generated by AI might not be entirely aligned with the developer’s full intent, and hence it might contain bugs that could get overlooked by developers. This growing trend compounds the need for code level testing.

In this session, Dedy Kredo, Co-founder and CPO at CodiumAI shows you how their AI coding assistant helps developers reach zero bugs. CodiumAI provides an IDE extension that automates unit/component test generation, identifies and fixes bugs in the code, and suggests enhancements to the code in areas such as best practices, modularity, vulnerability mitigation, performance, etc.

Download CodiumAI and give it a try!

🔗 VS Code: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Codium.codium
🚀Jetbrains: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/21206-codiumai--meaningful-tests-powered-by-testgpt-1-and-gpt-3-5-4

## Generative AI on AWS and AI21 large language models

Guests: Romi Datta (Senior Manager Ground Truth, AWS), Yuval Belfer (Developer Advocate, AI21 Labs)

In this segment, you will learn how you can build generative AI powered applications on AWS. We will explore how enterprises can leverage foundation models from our partner AI21 Labs for large language model based use cases. Further, Romi & Yuval show you how you can start using Generative AI today using Amazon SageMaker Jumpstart Foundation Model Hub securely, using a variety of 3rd party and open source models.

📒 Follow along on [GitHub](https://github.com/AI21Labs/ai21studio-devhub/blob/main/examples/Enhancing%20your%20online%20retail%20platform%20with%20generative%20AI.ipynb)!
☁️ [Amazon SageMaker Jumpstart](https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/jumpstart/?sagemaker-data-wrangler-whats-new.sort-by=item.additionalFields.postDateTime&sagemaker-data-wrangler-whats-new.sort-order=desc)

## GameDays Checkin

Guest: Shaden (@shadencodes)


## Community Interview

Guest: Or Hiltch, AWS Hero, VP of Engineering & Chief Data Architect, JLL

## 0 to Auth in an Hour or Less with Descope

Guest: Doron Sharon, Co-Founder, Descope

Passwordless authentication may seem complex, but it is simple to add it to any app using the right tool. There are multiple alternatives that are much better than passwords to identify and authenticate your users – including Social Logins, Passkeys, Magic Links, One-Time Passwords, SAML SSO, and Authenticator Apps.

In this session, we enhance a full-stack JS application (Node.js backend + React frontend) to authenticate users with OAuth (social login) and One Time Password (email) using Descope in minutes, then, we show how simple is to add new capabilities, such as Passkeys, to the login journey.

They also show how you can add passwordless auth to your Amazon Cognito login by setting Descope as an OIDC provider.

Watch the recording and learn how to add secure, frictionless login experiences to any app with a few lines of code!

To follow along with the demo or try adding authentication to an app at your own pace, sign up for the Free Forever tier of Descope

🔭 Sign up for Descope: https://www.descope.com/sign-up
🔒 AuthTown Community: https://www.descope.com/community o Descope Documentation: [https://docs.descope.com](https://docs.descope.com/)
🍎 Learning Center: https://www.descope.com/learn

## GameDays Checkin

Guest: Lihie Brosh (@thef1girl)


## F1 AIG Demo

Guest: Guillermo Ruiz


## Mastering AWS Cost Optimization

Guest: Yair Green

I have 20+ years of experience in the high-tech industry in Israel, leading tech and development teams in various companies, such as Telmap (acquired by Intel), Fiverr, Matomy Media Group, and Syte. In between, I had my venture around Cloud Management and helped many companies with the challenges around security, cloud cost optimization, and development practices.

Follow Yair on LinkedIn


## GameDay Trophy Ceremony

Winners: <Winning Team>


## Closer







